History of Java
===============
In 1990, Sun Micro system took one project to develop a software called consumer electronic device which can be controlled by a remote like setup box.That time project was called Stealth project and later it was renamed to Green project.

James Gosling, Mike Sheradin and Patrick Naughton were there to develop the project and they have met in a place called Aspan/Colarado to start the work with Graphic System. James Gosling decided to use C and C++ languages to develop the project.But problem what they have faced is C and C++ languages are system dependent. Then James Gosling decided why don't we create our own programming language which is system independent.

In 1991, they have developed on programming language called an OAK.OAK means strength , itself is a coffee seed name and it is a national tree for many contries like Germany, France, USA and etc.

Later in 1995, they have renamed OAK to JAVA. Java is a island of an Indonaisa where first coffee of seed was produced and during the development of project they were consuming lots of coffee's.Hence symbol of java is a cup of coffee with saucer.


Interview Questions
-------------------
Q) In which year java was developed ?

	In 1995

Q) Java was developed by ?

	James Gosling 

Q) Java originally known as ?

	OAK

Q) What is Java?

Java is a object oriented, platform independent, case sensitive, strongly typed checking,
high level, open source programming language developed by James gosling in the year of 1995.

or

Java is a versatile language which is used to develop various types of applications like 
Distributed applications, Enterprise applications, ERP applications and etc.



Q) What is Garbage Collector?

Garbage Collector is used to destroy unused or useless objects from Java.


Q) In how many ways we can call garbage collector ?

We can call garbage collector in two ways.

1) System.gc()

2) Runtime.getRuntime().gc()




Q) What are the features of Java?

We have following important features in java.

1) Simple  

2) Object oriented 

3) Platform independent 

4) Architecture Neutral 

5) Robust 

6) Highly secured

7) Portable

8) Multithreaded 

9) Dynamic 

10) Distributed 

and etc.


Q) What is application?

A set of programs is called application.
or
A collection of programs is called application.


Q) What is Program?

A set of instructions is called program.
or 
A collection of instructions is called program.


Q) What is instruction?

A collection of tokens is called instruction.
or
Set of tokes is called instruction.






















































































