Q) What is Spring?

It is a open source,leight weight, non-invensive, loosely coupled, aspect oriented, dependency injection java base application framework which is used to develop all kinds of applications. 


Q) Explain modules in Spring ?

Diagram: sb2.1

CORE Module
----------
It is a base module to learn other modules in spring framework.

Using core module we perform following things.

1) To obtain the containers

2) To perform dependency injections 

3) To create spring beans


AOP Module
-----------
AOP stands for Aspect Oriented Programming.
This module is used to inject and remove the middleware services to/from application.


DAO Module
----------
DAO stands Data Access Object.
It is a abstract layer on JDBC.
DAO module is used to convert checked exceptions to unchecked exception so we don't need to handle the exceptions.


ORM Module
----------
ORM stands for Object Relational Mapping.
ORM is a abstract layer on ORM tools like hibernate.
In hibernate, While sending the data in the form of objects we have some limitations and those limitations are removed from ORM module.


JEE Module
----------
JEE module is used to develop middleware services.


MVC Module
----------
MVC stands for Model View Controller.
MVC module is used to develop MVC based web applications.





Q) What is the difference between spring framework and spring boot?

Spring framework				Spring boot
------------------				------------
It is a open source, leight weight,loosely 	Spring Boot is built on top of spring framework
coupled, aspect oriented, dependency injection	and it is widely used to develop REST APIs.
java base application framework which is used
to develop all kinds of applications.
					
The most important feature of the Spring 	The most important feature of the Spring Boot is
Framework is dependency injection.		Autoconfiguration.

It helps to create a loosely coupled 		It helps to create a stand-alone application.
application.					

To run the Spring application we need to set 	Spring Boot provides embedded servers such as 
the server explicitly.				Tomcat, Jetty and undertow.
						
It doesn’t provide support for the in-memory 	It provides support for the in-memory database 
database.					such as H2, HSQL, Derby.
							

Dependencies will be added by the programmer 	Dependencies will be added by the spring boot 
in pom.xml file. 				component called starters.	
						

						

Q) How many components are there in spring boot?

We have four components in spring boot.

1) Autoconfiguration 

2) Starters

3) Actuators

4) CLI tool


Q) How many containers are there in spring framework?

We have two containers.

1) BeanFactory 

2) ApplicationContext 




Q) Explain spring MVC Architecture ?

Diagram: sb2.2






















