Types of applications
=====================
We have two types of applications.

1) Client based applications 

2) Web based applications 


1) Client based applications 
----------------------------
Applications which are running in a user's computer is called client based applications.

In general, client based applications need to installed in a user's computer.

Client based applications are used by perticular user.

All client based applications are rules out.

ex:
	VLC Media Player 


2) Web based applications 
-------------------------
Applications which can accessible from anywhere over the internet are called web based applications.

ex:
	Flipkart
	Amazon 
	and etc.


Q) How can we develop an application which can accessible by multiple users?

To develop an application which can be accessible by multiple user. We need to host our application on the top the server.

Diagram: aws1.1



Q) What is the difference between PC and Server ?

PC						Server
-------------					----------
It is designed for perticular user.		It is designed for multiple users.

It contains simple structure.			It contains complex structure.

It contains low network capability.		It contains high network capability.

It contains less storage from gigabytes to	It contains high storage from terabytes to 
Terabytes.					petabytes.

It contains one processor.			It contains multiple processors.



Q) A company will use one server or multiple servers?

It depends upon scale of a company.

Companies revenue completely relay on servers.So they make sure these servers must operate all the times.


To host our application on top of the server we need to organize the infrastructure.

Every IT company contains Data Center.

In a data center we will host our servers.

Diagram: aws1.2




Maintaining a data center is a very big deal.

1. Required private and secure place
2. Server maintainence team (database admin,network admin,monitoring team and etc). 
3. 24/7 we need to maintain temperature 16 to 19 degree celsius. 
4. 24/7 Dual power supply  (government and private power supplier)
5. 24/7 Dual Network (ISP)
6. Need to follow geographical orders/standards to protect customer data which 
   contains physical security and network security.
7. Hardware Refresh 
 

Q)Do you think is it easy to organize data center?

No, it is not easy to organize the data center.

Specially startup's can't be proceeded because data center is a capital intensive.

If we see, From 2009 to 2022 number of IT companies are drastically increases 
due to cloud.



Q)What is Cloud computing ?

Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go model. 

Example:
	Assume that my business is a e-commerce.
	During christmas or festival time I need thousands of servers and 
	those servers i am using only for limited days.


	Q)Do you think it is wise to buy thousands of servers only for limited days 
	and keeping them ideal for rest of the days? 

	OR 

	Q)I can lease them for few days and return them once it is done?

	answer : lease . 

	That's where cloud providers came into the picture.
	ex:
		Amazon
		Microsoft
		IBM
		Google
		Alibaba
		and etc.

In 2002,2003 , Amazon they starting their e-commerce , keeping the future demands in mind they got extends amount of hardware and their calculation absolute went wrong.

Whatever the forecasting they have done with respective to utilization it really went bad and they felt that only 20% to 30% of servers they are using.Almost 70% of their prediction went wrong and they left with no choice.

One of the intern of amazon got an idea , why don't we give our excess amount of server on lease for the people who want.In that way idea of cloud came to a picture.
ex:
	AWS
	Azure
	GCP
	alibaba cloud
	IBM cloud

Diagram: aws1.3

In 2004 the concept of cloud started.


Q)What is AWS?

AWS stands for Amazon Web Services.

It offers infrastructure as a service.

From 2004 to 2014 they are monopoly in industry.

AWS was a leader for almost 10 years.

Almost 75% to 80% of market occupied by AWS i.e Out of 100 , 75 to 80 customers are aws customers. 

It is one of the leading cloud service provider accross the world.

In 2014 , microsoft Azure came in to a picture.


Q)Why to choose AWS?

AWS is been for industry more then a decade.Hence majority of the customers on Amazon cloud and learning AWS is ensure that you will get secure job.




























































